# VGA_display VHDL

This is a VHDL project for a 800*600 VGA displayer.

This project has been tested on the STEP-MXO2 Development Board (see [this page](http://www.stepfpga.org/step-mxo2-development-board/) for information). Some useful information is listed below.

## Develop info

Device family: Lattice MachXO2

Device: LCMXO2-4000HC

IDE & synthesis tool: Lattice Diamond

## Function discription

This VGA display project can generate a VGA signal of 800*600 resolution that can be displayed on most monitors you can find on the market. You can swithch among three display modes and change the displayed color on screen by two buttons. 

### Display modes

1. **Vertical color bands**

   Display 8 vertical color bands (RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW, MAGENTA, CYAN1, WHITE, BLACK) on screen. You can left-shift these color bands by pressing **button 2**.

2. **Horizonal color bands**

   Display 8 horizonal color bands (RED, GREEN, BLUE, YELLOW, MAGENTA, CYAN1, WHITE, BLACK) on screen. You can up-shift these color bands by pressing **button 2**.

3. **Letter display**

   Display a message of "**I ❤ VHDL**" on the screen. The color of the words can be changed by pressing **button 2**.

### Control methods

I've designed two physical buttons to control the system. 

1. The **button 1**, specified as **state_inp** in _vga_main.vhd_, can switch this system among 3 states listed above.
2. The **button 2**, specified as **shift_inp** in _vga_mian.vhd_, can change the color displayed on the screen.

## Project files info

This project include 5 VHDL files and 3 Python files. Their functions are specified below.

### VHDL files

* _vga_main.vhd_

  The top module of this project. It create instances of other modules and connects them together.

* _vga_disp.vhd_

  Inculudes **vga_disp** module. It works at 40 MHz clock frequency created by the **pll_module** in _pll_module.vhd_. It reads button infromation from two jitter-eliminate button (**button_as_switch_nodist** module in _button_nodist.vhd_), changes the current display mode and switches the color display.

  A testbench is created for this module, written in _vga_tb.vhd_.

* _pll_mocule.vhd_

  Includes **pll_module** module. This module uses an onboard PLL to shift the 12MHz onboard oscillator frequency to the desired 40MHz working frequency for 800*600 VGA display.

  The module was automatically generated by **IPExpress**, which is inluded in Lattice Diamond Toolchain.

* _button_nodist.vhd_

  This **button_as_switch_nodist** module eliminates jitter caused by physical switches. It reads the signal input and changes the voltage output level whenever a valid signal is detected.

* _vga_tb.vhd_

  A Testbench file for **vga_disp** module in _vga_disp.vhd_. 

### Python files

Python is used to generate the display range of **"I ❤ VHDL"**. 

* _heart_generator.py_

  Generates the display range of heart (❤) on the screen.

* _V_generator.py_

  Generate the display range of letter **V** on the screen.

* _D_generator.py_

  Generate the display range of letter **D** on the screen.

## Change Log

1.0	2017-06-01	initial commit